FEEL FREE TO EDIT :)

In the initial state( given by state variable 0000), the reset is assumed to be high and start is assumed to be low.
This resets all the registers to zero and the controller variables "update", "LoadABC" and "Low" are also low and the circuit is ready to start processing a stream of pixels.

After one clock cycle, the reset still remains high and start remains zero indicating state 0001.

In the next clock cycle, the start input becomes high and reset becomes low which corresponds to state 0010.
The reset variable is assumed to remain low throughout afterwards.

The start input remains high even after one clock cycle and the controller makes LoadABC signal high in the state 0011.
When LoadABC signal becomes high, the coefficients iA, iB and iC are taken as input from the stream.

In the next clock cycle, the start and reset are both assumed to be low and the controller variable update becomes high. The update variable is an input to the block "Update i,j" which appropriately updates i and j.This variable is a function of load and the controller inputs i > 101. Also, the variable "Load" becomes high representing the fact that the first pixel values are fed into the inputs.These changes lead to a transition to state 0100.

Now, the variable "Update" remains high throughout until i exceeds 101.If the value of i does not exceed 1, the state remains same and this means that the circuit is taking input only. Therfore, the controller remains in this state for the 200 clock cycles (until the first 200 pixels are read) 

As soon as i exceeds 1, i.e. i becomes equal to 2, the state changes to 0101. Also, the contoller output calc is set high in this state representing that the interpolater block start processing the pixels.At this state, there are two processes happening, some pixel value is read and the required value for the pixel which was read 200 clock cycles before this pixel is computed.

In the next clock cycle, there is a transition to state 0110 where OutputReady varible becomes high denoting that the value at the output is valid.Thus, there is a delay of 201 clock cycles between the time of reading the first pixel and the time at which the first interpolated RGB value is ready to be output. The controller's state doesn't change until "i" exceedes 99.

When i exceeds 99, i.e. after 10000 clock cycles when we statrted reading the input pixels, the state changes and in this state , the variable "Load" is zero as there are no more input pixels to fed to the circuit. For the next 200 clock cycles, when i does not exceed 101, the controller's state remains the same.

As soon as i exceeds 101, all but last interpolated values are computed and thus the variable "calc" is set to 0 which will get updated in the next state. The last interpolated value gets computed in this cycle and therfore OutputReady remains high in this state.In the next clock cycle, the outputReady is set to 0 which will get Updated in the next clock cycle. Also, during this cycle, the output of last interpolated value is done.

In the final state, OutputReady is set to 0 as the output of all the interpolated values is done.  